Hello, everyone. Welcome to.
It's becoming an annual, um, meet and greet Q and A session with uh,
the CV SD Health and Safety team.
My name is Jocelyn Boe.
I'm one of the school nurses at Shelburne Community School
and the COVID coordinator for the Champagne Valley School district
and have some wonderful experts uh who
are joining us today. So they're going to introduce themselves.
So I'm also going to chime in, I'm Bonnie Bets.
I'm the Director of Digital Learning and Communication for the district.
So I'm mostly here to record this meeting and help make sure that others can see it.
Uh Lisa and Emily, why don't you all
go next and then we'll have our
position.
Um I'm Lisa Bisbee.
I'm a special educator at Williston Central
School in 1/5 through eighth grade team.
-- And I'm Emily mclean. I am a teacher at CBU High
-- School
CV U.
Sorry. Ch
I had a lot of kids go through CV U
I, I think I told you once before.
I have like hundreds of hours of years, whatever it is.
So I'm Bill Ras, I'm a pediatric infectious disease physician at
the University of Ramada.
I live in Charlotte and uh have vast experience with the school system there and
I'm really supportive of everything you do.
It's good to see some familiar faces actually.
Um um It's nice to be a part of a team. Thanks for inviting me.
My name is Doctor Elizabeth Hunt and I also live
in Charlotte and have three kids at CCS and I
help out in the volunteer capacity as the health advisor
with the school nurse there and the wonderful leadership team.
And I'm a general pediatrician
in South Burlington, Vermont and joined by one of my partners.
I'm Leah Costello.
I'm a pediatrician at Timberland Pediatrics with
Elizabeth Hunt and I live in Heinsberg.
I have two Children that attend Heinsberg community
school and I have one child that attends
Annette. Um, she's two
the daycare right across from CD U.
Um I was wondering maybe, um before we jump into kind of our questions,
if one of our doctors wants to take a stab at just kind of setting
the stage of where we're at right now in the COVID landscape in Vermont.
And a lot of us left in June and thought we were leaving it behind for schools. And so
I think it would be good for us to kind of get in that mindset.
Where, what are you seeing and what,
what do you think we're walking into for the school year?
So if I can, I'd love to take a crack at that. I think that
there has been tremendous concern across the United States about
the surge in infections and the transmissibility of the Delta variant
that has really changed our thinking about the virus quite a bit nationally.
I think that we've learned that this uh uh variant is much more
infectious than previous variants and that people
who are not vaccinated or not immune
um will become infected.
And that we're seeing, that's one of the reasons we're seeing the surge in cases.
We're not entirely sure that the Delta variant is more,
at least to more severe disease.
We just know that it is much more infectious.
Having said that I would say that Vermont is still
the safest place in the state.
No, the nation to be, we are in good shape compared to everyone else.
If you look at our numbers compared to Louisiana, Alabama, Texas, Florida,
Tennessee, we are off the charts better, to be honest with you, we really are,
we get really excited when there are 100 cases and we have a 3% infectivity rate on
people who are testing and they're symptomatic. Um States would
love those kind of numbers.
So we do want to reassure families.
We really want to assure the nurses, we want the special educators that we,
that we can send kids to school, that kids can be in school,
that kids need to be in school.
Um That this is a good safe environment where we
can do lots of things to keep them there.
So I don't want people to panic.
I don't want people to think that it's too dangerous to send their kids to
school or that they have to mask at home or something else like that.
We're just saying that with the Delta variant,
you should just be more cautious about congre and endure,
particularly with people you don't know.
Uh And, and in school settings,
we've been very supportive of masking in the school setting.
And I know, you know, the agency of education guidelines about that.
But again, there, there's a a rationale for doing that.
So we want to reassure parents,
we want to reassure them that kids need to be in school, they can be in school safely.
We wanna reassure that the vaccines are safe and that at any opportunity we
should get shots in arms and we want to support them in their decisions.
I'd like to piggyback on that question. Thank you, Doctor Rasco. That was great. But
we also left in June feeling like we were just
not seeing a whole lot of illness last year.
And as a general pediatrician in
private practice,
we have seen a significant amount of
infections that we don't typically see in the summer.
Um So we are just the landscape is very different. We're seeing RSV and young
infants and probably in older kids too. Um
We're seeing kids with croup. We're starting to see hand foot and mouth.
We're seeing enter virus. We're just seeing some
common summer viruses and some uncommon summer viruses.
So that's all in this picture with COVID that last year, we
saw very little pediatric disease um because of masking
and distancing and all the things that we did.
But we are now seeing those come back and that is
just changing the landscape,
um and um changing the amount of quarantine and testing
and the things that families need to do that,
-- I hope we'll talk about
-- tonight.
We also entered this school year now knowing a lot
about vaccines against COVID that protect against SARS COVID.
Two
health care providers started getting vaccinated last fall, mid fall, late fall.
And our, you know, CV U students in 12 and up started in May.
And um
we know that it's a very well tolerated vaccine
that it does work vaccinated. Individuals are less likely
to get severely ill or hospitalized or have um death. And um in
the young, I mean, the percent of adverse effects is super, super, super low.
And over time, we've seen many
vaccinated students, teachers and parents do very, very well.
Um So that provides
an additional layer of confidence going into the
uh the school year.
And we know like what Doctor Costello was saying
about the virus is being funkier this year.
It's largely because of masking, being so effective. And I would say
we talked a lot about masking
and concerns about that for the student population,
for you educators and think of how well they did this year.
They knocked it out of the park. The students were so flexible.
Oh, we have this tea, you know, oh, it's gonna be like that.
I was really, really impressed and empowered by
young people this year. And I think that's a, it's a better place to start from.
I can kind of piggybacking on that about masking.
I know that the Vermont chapter of the A
AP is really encouraging universal masking in schools.
And um
again, this is kind of a nationally a hot button topic about, you know,
wearing a mask in school and mask mandates.
Can you guys talk a little bit about
your position on masks in school and, and, and what you're seeing.
So uh the American Academy of Pediatrics and the
Centers for Disease Control uh did recommend universal masking.
The, we feel fairly strongly that masking really works to prevent transmission.
We have great data in schools that when you follow mitigation procedures,
we can prevent transmission in school.
Yeah, you know, there's a three part,
you try not to get let the virus in you prevent transmission and
you get it out as quickly as you can with contact tracing.
But masking is a central part of that.
The 80% rule has some uh background and, and in, in terms, in terms of um
what we call an R not value like how transmissible a virus is
and how many people need to be protected before you have heard immunity.
That number was really generated uh with the original
variants that were circulating in the United States.
We thought that if you really got to maybe 80%
vaccination
that maybe you would have a herd immunity.
What we're learning with the delta variant is that,
that may not be the best number any
longer and that we're seeing more breakthrough cases
uh though generally very mild. Um
And so there is concern that that may not be a good enough there.
And as you can imagine, Jocelyn operational
an 80% rule uh is really challenging.
So, uh you know, at CCS, which is K through eight,
you know, you know, that's, that's a building as they just,
just the 7th and 8th graders, are they gonna be allowed to unmask versus no one from,
you know, K six? Is it one building? Is it two classrooms
extraordinarily challenging?
And if you can imagine, you know, that's more competent enough when you have K 38,
now you're at a school that straddles the New
Hampshire border where you have people crossing the border.
How do you figure out whether 80% of the people have been immunized?
So, while we understand the rationale
behind that,
I just think that that's gonna be really challenging and
I think that it is just so much more straightforward,
easy and appropriate to support universal masking in the school.
I would say that be
a Bell right now, I was supposed to join a different meeting at six,
but Becca Bell is at a different school board meeting where
there are a whole bunch of anti maskers and anti vaccinators
in the audience uh firebombing them right now.
Um Just because that's how controversial the issue is.
Well, in terms of tolerance of masking, I mean BSA,
I had mentioned that Children were accepting of
it and able to comply while still learning,
socializing and
enjoying the school experience.
There were many parents um I think who are concerned about
the experience for their child.
So maybe Cho chose for remote or we were reluctant to go to hybrid or in person.
Um
Also, I received a lot of con concerning kind of messages and questions
about athletics, temperature change, you know,
all of the environmental factors that
make wearing a surgical mask or a double layer, cloth mask
uncomfortable.
I feel like the educational system handled that very well in terms of giving breaks
and letting kids know that if they needed to slow
down or step away and take a break that they could
and we did not see any really dangerous or untoward
events in individual kids or the whole population this whole time
from masks.
And that is once again a a valuable learning experience and
I think kids will talk to each other about it.
Yeah, it's not that bad. You can go to get air if you wear a mask.
Um, you know, we're,
we're gonna end up masking a lot more when we have less ventilation,
less opportunity to be outdoors.
I suspect. So,
um,
I think using the experience to support, um, people who might be antimaskers.
I hadn't heard that term yet. Bill. But, uh,
so,
um, the kids really are the best teachers I find in this, this kind of situation
in addition to masking.
Can you think about some other mitigation strategies
that you want parents to know about?
You want staff to know about?
What are some other things that you saw that we were successful from last year that
we need to carry over in
this coming year?
I
was, we have to keep sick kids home.
Um, and this is really challenging, um, for myself included as a parent. Uh,
that
as if your child wakes up with the sniffles, it is not allergies, stay home,
get tested,
um,
reach out to your pediatrician or if your child has mild symptom symptoms
that you don't feel like you need to contact with your doctor.
You can actually just go to the health department sites and test. Um,
it's easy, it's available for kids over 12 months of age.
Um,
we went to the Waterbury one the other day.
It was amazingly smooth and easy, um,
for a close contact in our family and tested the whole family.
But, um, but we have to stay home if we're sick,
that's hands down the most important thing and get tested.
So, we're not bringing COVID into the schools. It is extraordinarily disruptive.
Um, if any of you watching this are employers,
you need to know that your employees who are parents
are gonna need to take more sick time this year.
Um, and need to be more attentive to their kids and stay home.
Um This year because of not being able to
be at school or daycare with any sick symptoms.
Yeah,
you hit it spot on and the algorithm that came out is um and
it seems like doctor Esky wrote in that there will be a little bit more
fine tuning but um
just contact your medical home, your school nurse like ah what's this all about?
What should we do? You know, it's all about getting through this
beginning together
and asking questions. We have good algorithms.
The pop up sites are fine to sign up for free for symptomatic and asymptomatic.
Many medical homes are testing, we do them in the parking lot
like in our sleep practically. And the algorithms are really helpful.
Like we've seen some young kids with teething runny noses
like we don't necessarily test them and they're fine,
you know, but most kids who have
the symptoms that fall in the
the algorithm without being in close contact fever, shortness of breath,
loss of taste or smell.
Um
difficulty breathing,
cough,
aches, fatigue, vomiting, diarrhea, those are still, you know, need to be in the,
in the forefront.
And many employers you, you know, had the COVID sick days and,
and I think
parents are very understanding if the c a child's
teacher needs to be out because they're not.
Well, I would hope they would, you know,
continue to support those kind of staffing changes that
a school will have to make on the fly
to keep kids safe. So
staying home when you're sick is extremely important,
Jocelyn, the only thing I would add is the immunization strategy remains critical.
We need to continue to emphasize immunization
and I think there's been a glow somewhat
of a go slow movement for Children 5 to 12 or 5 to 11.
Uh I can go into that more detail, but I'm hoping that
we can once, if that does get eau that we can
not only school based clinics but pop up sites and as well as
the medical home to maximize our opportunities to get vaccines into Children,
to encourage the older Children to get
their vaccine as well because they're eligible
within the school. I think that there'll be contact tracing.
The state of Vermont is still committed to contact tracing
that's not gonna disappear although other states have abandoned that.
Um And so the EpiPen
is ready for that.
I think that ventilation remain an issue,
but we're not gonna tell you to redo the hava
uh fans don't work.
But again, if use the summer,
uh the warm weather to open the windows or keep kids outside,
I think an issue that comes up is what to
do when you're um what to do during dining experiences.
And so we continue to recommend that and that if
you're unmasked and dining that you should try to separate.
But the only time we are talking about any distancing, you know,
so the Agency of Education
uh two pager did not talk about distancing at all.
But we tend to recommend from our point of view that
if you're unmasked, you should try to be separate for each other.
We're cautious about putting an exact number there,
Emily and others because me of the school foundered on 6 ft versus 3 ft.
But we just say as best you can, it would be nice if you could maintain 3 ft of distance.
And it may be that you have some kids in the classroom
and some kids in the cafeteria eating or something like that.
But things like plexi class are gonna disappear
except at the entrance to the the school where the
person checking people and may have that as a barrier.
So just to follow up on that, Doctor Raza, um I think school lunchtime is,
is a big concern for us who are teachers.
Um So maybe we could spend a little bit more
time talking about that because as you already stated,
the A OE guidance was really spartan.
I mean, last year we got a big packet and it had pages and pages with lots of details.
And then
this year it was a quick little two pager that just said wear a mask and
I don't know, it sounds like maybe some new information is coming out from the A OE.
But what our doctors thinking is the best advice for health and safety measures
when it comes to times during the school day where we have to unmask,
-- which would
-- be eating.
So my perspective on this is that when you're unmasked,
you should try to indoors, you should try to separate as best you can.
I'm not worried about Children or adults being unmasked outdoors.
So if you're running around playing soccer
outdoors or playing tag outside and that's,
that's fine.
I'm not worried about that at all
and, and, and then, but,
but my recommendation is as best you
can to ensure distancing when they're unmasked.
The other things that the, the, the letter was silent but was, you know, are,
uh artistic endeavors such as playing music,
uh, instruments and singing
and, and I don't know what will happen to that.
Um But nonetheless, those are some pressure points on the school system at
this time.
But the biggest issue that I run across is, is just how, how do we eat together?
I think we will rely on our community to be vaccinated.
We rely on our community to not send their kids to school with any sick symptoms.
And then we
do our best to try to separate, um,
and knowing that we have those two other things in place that
vaccinations and
nobody ill in school to help protect both the students
and the staff in the school during those times,
like eating.
And does that, um, change if you have a mostly vaccinated population,
which we would have at the high school,
unlike at least a school where you have a mix of unvaccinated and vaccinated.
Well, in theory, if your school has met the 80% criteria,
then people don't have to wear a mask and
you wouldn't do any mitigation strategies while dining.
So that's why I'm very careful to say if you are in a masked environment
and then you unmask then as best you can usually distance.
So I'm thinking generally speaking in the Children, 5 to 11,
the elementary school age Children,
the general recommendation is to mask at all times and so
done
eating lunch or snacks,
whatever is the pressure point in high schools where they have achieved 80%
it's
not gonna be an issue
and people will mask if they want to, it'll be up to
individual decisions
just for some context.
Our our 5 to 11 year olds usually eat their lunch in under 10 minutes, I would say. So,
you know, thinking about just some,
some strategies that we can employ is just kind of when you're
done and you're done and you're gonna chat with your neighbor.
You can put your mask back on.
I think the lunch time is actually 20 minutes.
Five of that is getting settled and cleaning up. So
it's a, it is a pretty short time.
But I think that there are some ways that we can
look at our system having kids eat in the cafeteria and,
and cut down some risk.
I think the one we did the original healthy restart, we had, um,
some rules that we had to allot 25 minutes for lunch.
I don't know whether it was a federal regulation or whatever, but you put, you know,
there's always another layer of complexity here, but you're right,
they're not as fast as the seaview high school soccer team eating,
but they are pretty quick.
Um,
I was wondering if you can talk as professionals when you're thinking about how
you talk to parents who are maybe are on the fence about that vaccination.
Um I know that that still remains one of our best strategies for our group.
Um So how do you kind of talk to parents who are skeptical about a new vaccine or,
or are concerned about the,
um, having their child get vaccinated?
Well, I usually a, a
lot of parents feel like it's really new for the 12 to 17 year olds. Um
And while that cohort received the vaccine later,
the vaccine the base moderna and pfizer vaccines
for which young people are eligible depending on their age,
whether it's pfizer or Moderna
um, have been around now for almost a year. And so we, we have had time
in real life with our population to observe how well tolerated the vaccine has been.
Um, I think adverse events in 12 to 17 is like 0.6% something like that, less than 1%
based on the research and the trials and
in real life. Absolutely. It's, it's that low. Um
So I kind of say, well, it's the same one I got.
It's just, you know, and the same is true.
It's the same substrate that they're working on dosing for the 5 to 11 year olds.
Um, and that tends to give them pause, like, oh, kind of like
the measles vaccine you got is the same one your child got essentially. And um,
so that talking point seems to help. And also, um
we like, it's really, I think, helpful to understand that
so much of the unknown when it comes to your child
is about doubt and wanting to just erase all doubt.
And that's what good parents do. They, they do what's best for their kids and just
validate and listen and share that, you know,
they're being a great parent by thinking critically about this and that,
like Leah Castello had alluded to,
it's good to be ready and really feel ready and our job is to help that readiness.
Um And just say, well, you know, sometimes I ask, what are you worried about?
You know, they say, well, I read this Myocarditis article
and um
we don't
because this is happening in real time.
There, there are things we don't know about the COVID vaccine moving through time,
but the same is true of the CO COVID infection
in the young and long COVID.
We believe that the risk of COVID
is, is worse than that far worse than that of the COVID vaccine.
And
um
people tend to respond to that. Um
Also
the fact that MRN A vaccines are not new.
Um And that there weren't any shortcuts like the way I explained,
people really freak out when they realize how quickly this vaccine come out.
And I explained that
the teams worked harder. They ran all the
mai everything happened
as a priority day, night, weekends so that the timeline was abbreviated,
but there weren't scientific shortcuts that would put anyone at risk
and um
that is helpful. They just don't, they're like, oh really?
Oh, I thought they just skipped steps. Um
and then um
a lot of teens want to get vaccinated but their parents are apprehensive.
And so I have found that turning to the teen and saying, what do you think?
What have you heard that a lot of them are just as well as formed,
informed as I am and they're
eager
and then I like to talk a little bit about what it gets us as a community.
So being vaccinated is a commitment to one's neighbors. It's a commitment to
prevention.
It's a commitment to those who are immunocompromised or cannot be vaccinated.
And that
um
that as a community committing to vaccination is our way out of the
dramatic
um lifestyle,
social and emotional changes that we've all been through for better or for worse.
And Doctor Bell
who's advocating right now wrote a great letter like a week and a half ago
that really highlighted the exacerbation of the pediatric mental health crisis.
And we deal just as much with that
as we do with COVID concerns, if not more.
And that has we have to roll that back.
You guys this,
this school year as much as we can and um a regular routine being in person connecting
with other humans,
knowing there are resources, there are supports,
there are other people out there who are just as concerned.
There are great school nurses and teachers, I think
um
will really help um with the start.
Sorry. That was kind of long.
-- I
-- would add one thing to that. Um
Elizabeth, that was great. I
uh long term side effects is another thing that parents bring up.
And I think we can really confidently say after
decades and decades of research around vaccines that we long
term complications is not something that we see or have
any concern from in the medical and scientific community,
we see
um side effects in the first few,
2 to 6 weeks after a vaccination. So the study was adequate to look for
any potential complications. But we don't see
effects on puberty or fertility or there's just no scientific basis for that.
And sometimes even just really talking through why
there is no scientific basis for it um
helps to parents to maybe not make a decision right there in the moment.
But just to think about it more critically and know that we're,
that there are logical explanations that we can walk through.
-- I'm not sure
-- if this is Jocelyn. Could you talk a little bit about um
what kind of uh surveillance testing and things like that is gonna look like? And
um
so one of,
I would say another mitigation strategy that we are
going to have out of the gate is testing.
And last year when we sat here,
we talked about testing and it was that a great strategy.
And at that point,
our, our
state's testing capacity um wasn't as robust as it is now,
but now we're in a much better place and
we're going to partner with the A OE to offer surveillance testing for all students
and staff on a regular basis. And I, I don't have a
firm under know, you know, plan of how often.
But I'm, we did surveillance testing on staff last year every month.
And so I imagine we will be doing the same thing.
Um If parents are listening, it's going to be an opt
in,
you would have to register your child. You'll get um,
you know, a user name and password, you will register your child,
you will get the results. It's not something that school will um have results for.
But um your school nurses will, will be helping your child get good swab
and get that sent out to the Broad Institute in, in Massachusetts. So,
um
I think that will be one of our,
our strategies as a school to catch those asymptomatic cases.
You know, we,
we're hoping not to catch any asymptomatic cases
because we're hopefully those kids are staying home.
But um
you know, that will help give us a little bit of
um
insight into, into what we're seeing in,
in a population in schools and hopefully catch cases like Doctor Rasa said,
you know, before
they go
-- and
-- spread
and just a reminder that it is so easy to go to the health department sites,
whether you're symptomatic or asymptomatic.
Um, you actually don't need an appointment.
Um You can register for an appointment but you can also wait.
Um And they are
so easy to go to both in Burlington,
Winski, like I said, we went down to Waterbury, but they are all over.
-- Um And another option for testing.
-- I've been tested so many times.
I forget that other people haven't.
And just so everyone knows it's not the big deep brain tickle that we all heard about.
Um, last year and everyone was a little fearful of.
It's just a little swab inside your nose. It's not painful at all.
Um, my own Children have done it so many times. They're practically experts. So,
and kids can self swab too.
Um, my six year old going into first grade did not want to the other day when we tested,
but my nine year old did fine.
Um
They're walking into the room right now. In fact,
yeah, we self swab
in our clinic.
Um, like two year olds, three, I mean, they're actually, yeah, it works quite well.
And
um glad to hear our infectious disease community supports
that because you can get a great sample.
You just say I need the mucus, like really get it wet, you know.
Um
And uh
yeah, brings, brings them together.
It'll work out.
Jocelyn. This might be a question for you.
Is the district still planning to keep the
-- COVID dashboard going to report out on
-- cases.
Yes.
At this point,
we are planning to keep um our weekly update that Bonnie and I do on the website.
Um or we report our cases that are infectious in school.
So if somebody isn't infectious in school, we don't necessarily know about that.
And so we don't report that
people can also look at the department of Health website.
They update it twice a week, last school year I'm not sure their plan for this year.
But if they want to see
um cases that are infectious in school,
the department of Health reports on that as well.
I
don't know if this is something that you guys can speak to as, as uh you know,
insiders on the V chip team.
But can you talk a little bit about the breakthrough cases?
I think um you know, our our staff is, is has robust vaccination rates,
but there is some
ambivalence of being parents of young
kids or living with immunocompromised people.
Can you talk a little bit about,
you know, the likelihood of a breakthrough case and a breakthrough case spreading?
I know the governor talked about our
percentages on the press conference yesterday,
but I don't know if you had some
even
data.
So I think the take home message
has been and should be for a long time is
that the vaccines work extremely well at preventing severe disease.
The vaccine strategy was designed to prevent severe disease.
It was a bonus that it prevented infection.
I think people are a bit surprised at
how effective the vaccines were preventing infection.
But
from the get go and now they still prevent severe disease,
all three licensed vaccines in the United States.
What we're seeing though is that we're seeing a
AAA fall in tighter over time
and a fall in protection against infection over time
and that was shown in Israel would use the
Pfizer vaccine almost exclusively and they were very aggressive.
And there was just three reports today and then,
mmwr which just shows that there is waning protection against infection
that the Vermont data has been reassuring, generally said it's uncommon.
Um There's some,
a little bit more concerning data that a
couple of states are really monitoring very carefully,
the breakthrough rates.
It's and now it's taking up a slightly higher
percentage of cases than an unvaccinated because historically,
this has been,
this wave has been the wave of the unvaccinated.
To be honest with you.
It's still primarily that,
but we are seeing an uptick in people who have breakthrough cases.
They tend to be a bit older to be
with you. They tend to have more immuno compromising conditions.
But no, unless it's there. And the, the rationale for actually,
um the booster,
I would say that most people entering school are actually not
in that high risk category that uh most of them,
you know, that the teams weren't the eau wasn't even until March, you know,
um things like that.
So III I do think that there is some breakthrough, but again, we're,
it's designed to prevent severe infections.
We don't know quite how infectious people are with bright
breakthrough infections because that's been hard to sort out.
We do know that they have relatively similar amounts of virus in their nose.
Um as those people who uh have not been immunized and become infected,
but we don't have great data on exactly how transmissible they are.
And that's unfortunately just another
wave of
how this has to be managed. You know, if you read the
A OE two pager, it's about kind of managing COVID
and doing our best to prevent
serious outcomes and
bolster vaccination and, um,
educate Children and
keep them feeling safe and healthy. Um,
it's not like a switch you can flip.
We've seen,
um,
I think we've gotten through both of our questions for this, this group.
Um Do you have any like partying wisdom for us for the year or
words you want us to carry with us?
School is really important um And can be safe.
I think we did this last year really well. Um
and really um
led the nation in our vaccination efforts,
led the nation in keeping our kids in school more than most
of my friends across the country had their Children in school.
Um What we've done for Vermont kids is remarkable
and we really can continue to do that,
but it's a community effort.
Um All those who are eligible must get the vaccine.
If your child is sick, please keep them home and get tested
and wear your mask when you're indoors. Um It's a much smaller set of steps this year.
Um
And that we can get our kids really safely back in school.
Even I feel confident that your Children,
if you're a teacher who happens to get a breakthrough case that
school,
you being in school teaching and your Children being in school
is still just really the benefits far outweigh the risks.
Um
And that even though we're in an,
we have a hot more transmissible variant, that does not mean 100% of kids get it.
If it comes into a classroom, that is not what it means.
And with these small efforts, we can
make that risk even much lower.
Um And I'm really excited for kids to go back to school
and see them in the classroom and see them doing more.
I'm so excited for my daughter to go into the art room. She's never gone.
She's starting first grade and she's never been to the library or the art room and
here we go. Um It'll be so exciting in music class.
I would add to, please use us, please reach out to your medical home.
We really love working with the educational system
and just being part of these awesome communities.
And
there I get lots of questions. I'm happy to answer them.
You know, I have this vacation book to see the grandparent. What should I do? Should I
refund or
you know, wanting to set up birthday parties and celebrate together and
feel normal and we can talk about those situations.
We try to have information at the ready
the districts do online um
American Academy of Pediatrics. Um And
it's gonna change, you can count on anything it's change and, you know,
we're here to be a sounding board and help support
and it's just 1 ft in front of the other.
Really?
But
it's gonna be good. It's gonna be a good year.
I just wanna say thank you for all that you do to get the kids into school
and keep them in school. I'm deeply appreciative and anything that
we can do to support you in that effort.
I'm happy to participate in.
Well, it's been a pleasure seeing all of you
and, um, you know where to find me and any questions, happy to talk to you at any time.
All right.